README.md, before:

# Introduction

hmac-headers is a Scala utility for signing and verifying HMAC signatures passed in a header in a HTTP request.
Given a secret key shared between the client and the server, hmac-headers can do the following:

- on the client side, create two strings which can be put in appropriate headers (generally the `Date` and `Authorization` headers) as part of the request:
  - a date in the following format: Sun, 06 Nov 1994 08:49:37 GMT (see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-7.1.1.1)
  - a Base64 encoded HMAC, signed using the URI, the date and the secret

- on the server side, verify that the received headers are valid. Given a date string and a HMAC hash, it will check that:
  - the hash was computed using the same secret
  - the date is within the allowed time range (to avoid replay attacks)

# Usage

In your build.sbt:

```
libraryDependencies += "com.gu" %% "hmac-headers" % "<version>" // find the latest version by checking this repo's tags
```

## Verifying requests

```
import com.gu.hmac.HMACHeaders

val authorization = // extract HMAC from header
val date = // extract date from header
val uri = new URI(request.uri) // extract the URI from the request

hmacService.validateHMACHeaders(date, authorization, uri)) // returns a Boolean
```

## Signing requests


```
import com.gu.hmac.HMACHeaders

val hmacHeaders = hmac.createHMACHeaderValues(new URI("example.com"))
// Add headers to your request as appropriate, e.g. in Play
ws.url("example.com")
  .withHeaders(HeaderNames.DATE -> hmacHeaders.date, HeaderNames.AUTHORIZATION -> hmacHeaders.token)
```

Commit message:

add release instructions, bump version ready for release

README.md, after:

# Introduction

hmac-headers is a Scala utility for signing and verifying HMAC signatures passed in a header in a HTTP request.
Given a secret key shared between the client and the server, hmac-headers can do the following:

- on the client side, create two strings which can be put in appropriate headers (generally the `Date` and `Authorization` headers) as part of the request:
  - a date in the following format: Sun, 06 Nov 1994 08:49:37 GMT (see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-7.1.1.1)
  - a Base64 encoded HMAC, signed using the URI, the date and the secret

- on the server side, verify that the received headers are valid. Given a date string and a HMAC hash, it will check that:
  - the hash was computed using the same secret
  - the date is within the allowed time range (to avoid replay attacks)

# Usage

In your build.sbt:

```
libraryDependencies += "com.gu" %% "hmac-headers" % "<version>" // find the latest version by checking this repo's tags
```

## Releasing

### Testing locally

You can publish locally by running:

```shell
# Test your signing setup works (you may need to follow the guide below first)
sbt +publishLocalSigned

# Publish locally so that other projects can use your local ivy repository
sbt +publishLocal
```

### Get access to publish
You will need to have access to publish to Maven Central for `com.gu` assets. 
You can [follow this guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rNXjoZDqZMsQblOVXPAIIOMWuwUKe3KzTCttuqS7AcY/edit#heading=h.651termw35o0) 
to get access.

### Update the version
When you are ready to release, ensure that [`version.sbt`](./version.sbt) is updated and committed in the default branch
(`main`) with an appropriate version bump following [`semver`](https://semver.org/).

### Tag and release
```shell
git tag -a v2.x -m "Releasing version 2.x"
git push origin v2.x
sbt release
````

## Verifying requests

```
import com.gu.hmac.HMACHeaders

val authorization = // extract HMAC from header
val date = // extract date from header
val uri = new URI(request.uri) // extract the URI from the request

hmacService.validateHMACHeaders(date, authorization, uri)) // returns a Boolean
```

## Signing requests


```
import com.gu.hmac.HMACHeaders

val hmacHeaders = hmac.createHMACHeaderValues(new URI("example.com"))
// Add headers to your request as appropriate, e.g. in Play
ws.url("example.com")
  .withHeaders(HeaderNames.DATE -> hmacHeaders.date, HeaderNames.AUTHORIZATION -> hmacHeaders.token)
```
